US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
in Israel to push for a ceasefire deal
in Gaza after talks resumed in Doha last
week in a meeting with Israeli president
Isaac harzog blinkin said the
negotiations are a decisive moment in
the war and may be the last opportunity
to get Israeli hostages home but Hamas
which carried out the October 7th Terror
attacks has said any signs of progress
are an illusion the group says Israel
has added new demands in the latest
talks and has refused to consider
withdrawing all of its troops from Gaza
which is a red line for Hamas get
theages home let's hear some of what
blinkin had to say at that meeting with
the Israeli president this is a decisive
moment um probably the best maybe the
last opportunity to get the hostages
home to get a ceasefire and to put
everyone on a better path to enduring
peace and security uh I'm here as part
of an intensive diplomatic effort on
President Biden's instructions to try to
get this agreement to the line and
ultimately over the line uh it is time
for it to get done uh it's also time to
make sure that no one takes any steps
that could derail this process to get
and while Israeli negotiators have
expressed cautious optimism about
reaching a ceasefire deal prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu accuses Hamas of
dragging its
feet Hamas remains obstinate it hasn't
even sent a representative to the talks
in Doha therefore the pressure should be
directed at Hamas and its leader sinir
not at the Israeli
government more on this I'm joined Now
by DW's Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem Tanya
what are the main stinking sticking
points in the negotiations at this
point well I can tell you what we know
uh what's being discussed uh publicly of
of course there a lot of things going on
behind the scenes that we don't know but
it seems that the list is still uh quite
long and that despite the spring
proposal that was put on the table by
the mediators at the talks in Doha last
week that is in itself based on the
framework that was presented by US
President Joe Biden uh back uh in may
now Hamas released a statement on Sunday
night um they said they met with the
mediators and they are basically
detailing some of the sticking points
according to their understanding they're
saying there's issue of a permanent SE
that they want to see and the withdrawal
of all the troops from Gaza now we heard
from Israel so far that they are only
committing to oppose uh in fighting now
there's also the issue of the so-called
narim Corridor this is the newly created
uh area between the North and the South
of the Gaza Strip where Israel has put
checkpoints now Hamas says it wants free
movement for the people to go back home
in the north from the south to the north
Israel has said they don't want to see
any arm people uh going uh North so they
need to control this area there's also
the issue of the Philadelphia Corridor
this is the area between uh the Border
area between Gaza and Egypt and that
also pertains to the opening of The
rafar Crossing one of the main crossings
that has been closed now for many many
weeks uh there Israel says it needs to
control this area has some sort of
control because this is the main Supply
Route uh for Hamas and underground
tunnels and of course Hamas for that but
there also still issues it seems about
the number of hostages and also uh What
uh you know the choice of the
Palestinian prisoners that would be uh
uh exchanged for the hostages that are
still remaining in
Gaza so quite a few sticking points uh
given those concerns How likely is it
Tanya that there will be an
agreement well that's a good question
basically um it's first of all we're not
sure really where those talks stand but
uh you know we heard the mediators after
the talks in Doha there struck some kind
of cautiously optimistic tone but this
is not matched at all what we're hearing
now from Israeli officials uh but also
from Hamas officials and it doesn't seem
that a breakthrough that's also really
pushed uh by the United States and
that's also why we are seeing Secretary
of State Antony blinkin here now in the
region that it seems really are near so
also here in Israel Netanyahu has been
accused also in the security
establishment that he's not pushing hard
enough for a deal netan of course has
rejected this he says you know his
strategy of military pressure is working
and we are seeing this also translated
in Gaza where heavy bombardment has been
going on more displacement of people
more more people have been asked again
to evacuate areas which have been where
the Israeli military has operated before
and don't forget this all comes on the
backdrop of course of the regional
tensions here with Iran and Hezbollah uh
they have been signaling that they're
holding off some sort of their
retaliatory strike seeing where those
ceasefire talks are uh leading to but at
the moment this is not true at all
what's been what will be the result of
that Tanya thank you very much for
filling Us in there that was our
correspondent in Jerusalem Tanya Kramer